\input texinfo.tex      @c -*-texinfo-*-

@setfilename dibs-faq.info
@settitle Frequently asked questions about DIBS (with answers)

@setchapternewpage off

@titlepage
@title DIBS FAQ
@subtitle Frequently asked questions about DIBS
@sp 1
@author Emin Martinian
@page
@end titlepage

@node Top, General Questions, (dir), (dir)
@top
@unnumbered Preface
@cindex FAQ for DIBS, latest version

This is a list of frequently asked questions (FAQ) for DIBS users.

@menu 

* General Questions::
* Installation::
* Technical Questions::

@end menu

@node General Questions
@chapter General Questions

@menu
* What is DIBS?::             
* What prevents peers from seeing my private data?::
* But what if somebody breaks the encryption?::
* How does DIBS send/receive files?::
* Why doesn't DIBS use rsync?::
* I backup data between my two machines; why do I need DIBS?::
* How does DIBS provide high robustness to failures?::
* Why is DIBS written in Python?::
@end menu

@node What is DIBS?
@section What is DIBS?

The goal of the Distributed Internet Backup System (DIBS) is to
provide a simple, secure, and robust system for backing up data by
exchanging it with peers on the Internet.  DIBS is inspired by the idea
that since disk drives are cheap, backup should be cheap too. 

Of course, mirroring your own data by adding more disks to your computer
is less than ideal because a fire, flood, power surge, etc. could still
wipe out your local data center.  Instead, you should give your files to
peers (and in return store their files) so that if a catastrophe strikes
your area, you can recover data from surviving peers.  DIBS is designed
to implement this vision.

Note that DIBS is a backup system not a file sharing system like
Napster, Gnutella, Kazaa, etc. In fact, DIBS automatically encrypts all
data transmissions so that the peers you exchange files with can not access
your data.

@node What prevents peers from seeing my private data?
@section What prevents peers from seeing my private data?

DIBS automatically encrypts all data which it sends to peers for backup
using Gnu Privacy Guard (GPG).  See @uref{http://www.gnupg.org/} for more
information.  

@node But what if somebody breaks the encryption?
@section But what if somebody breaks the encryption?

While it is possible that breakthroughs in cryptography, quantum
computing or other fields will allow crack the encryption 
employed by DIBS, it is probably unlikely in the next couple of decades.
Furthermore since almost every financial transaction which takes place
on the Internet depends on the security of encryption, you will probably
have much more serious problems if such encryption is broken.
Having said that, it would be unwise to back up nuclear launch codes on DIBS.

@c http://www.rsasecurity.com/rsalabs/challenges/index.html

@node How does DIBS send/receive files?
@section How does DIBS send/receive files?

DIBS can communicate with peers in a number of ways.  The default way is
for your DIBS peer to contact another peer using Python sockets.  This
works best if both you and the peer you are contacting are on the
same network.  If there is only one firewall between you and the peer,
one of you can use passive mode.  In passive mode, the passive peer
queues messages until contacted by the active peer.  If there is more
than one firewall between you and a peer, DIBS can communicate over
email (make sure you check with your system administrator before using
this option).

@node Why doesn't DIBS use rsync?
@section Why doesn't DIBS use rsync?

Rsync is a terrific program, but it wasn't designed for distributed,
encrypted, backup using erasure correcting codes.  DIBS does do
incremental backup in the sense that it only backs up files that
have changed.

@node I backup data between my two machines; why do I need DIBS?
@section I backup data between my two machines; why do I need DIBS?

DIBS uses Reed-Solomon codes (a type of erasure correcting code) to take
maximum advantage of redundant copies.  An example, best illustrates the
benefits of this approach.  

Imagine that for every file you have on machine A, you store an
identical copy on machine B.  This requires 100% redundancy in the sense
that for every kilo-byte of data you want backed up you need an extra
kilo-byte of backup.  The robustness this redundancy buys you is that if
machine A goes down you can recover data from machine B.  Of course, if both
machines go down then your data is lost.

Let us compare this to what would happen if you instead stored your data
with N DIBS peers and used 100% redundancy.  DIBS could take each file
you want to backup and break it into N shares so that the original file
can be recovered from any N/2 shares.  For example, if you had 10 DIBS
peers, your data would be safe even if any five peers crashed, erased
your data, or were otherwise unavailable.  If you had 100 DIBS peers,
your data would be safe even if any 50 peers were unavailable.  Thus
storing data with DIBS can give you dramatically higher levels of
robustness for the same redundancy.

For more details see the next entry.

@node How does DIBS provide high robustness to failures?
@section How does DIBS provide high robustness to failures?

The short answer is DIBS uses Reed-Solomon (RS) codes which are an optimal
type of erasure correcting code similar to what is used in high level
RAID.  The advantages of RS codes are best illustrated by example.

Imagine that you have three numbers, F_1, F_2, and F_3 (e.g.,
representing pieces of a file) that you want to back up.  You could just
store each number on a different machine, but then if any of those
machines crash your data is lost.  To provide some robustness, you could
make two copies of each number and store the 6 pieces each on a separate
machine.  This scheme requires 100% redundancy in the sense that you are
storing twice as much data as the original.  The robustness you get is
that you can now tolerate the loss of any one machine.  Note that if
both machines storing F_1 go down, though then you unrecoverably lose
data.

Now let us consider how an RS code would work.  You take the three
numbers you want to store and "pretend" they are the coefficients of a
parabola: y(x) = F_1 * x^2 + F_2 * x + F_3.  You then compute 6 points
on this parabola (e.g., y(0), y(1), ..., y(5)) and store each of these
on a different machine.  This scheme also requires 100% redundancy in
the sense that you are storing twice as much data as the original (six
numbers instead of three).  The benefit is that you can tolerate the
loss of any three machines (as opposed to any one machine).  

Specifically, to recover your data take any three points on the parabola
(which you get from any three surviving machines), and use these three
points to reconstruct the parabola.  Once you have the equation of the
parabola, you can recover F_1, F_2, and F_3.  In general, you can
recover any k degree polynomial via k+1 points on that polynomial.

To summarize, storing k pieces of data by making c copies of each piece
(for k*c total pieces), is robust to the loss of any c pieces.  Using RS
codes (a generalization of the parabola example) to produce k*c total
pieces, is robust to the loss of any k*c - k pieces.  Thus the RS codes
used by DIBS are robust to k*c - k - c more losses than a simple
repetition strategy.  

@node Why is DIBS written in Python?
@section Why is DIBS written in Python?

Some of the reasons DIBS is written in Python include portability,
readability, rapid development, the need to use GnuPG, and Python's large
number of built-in features.  My initial goal for DIBS is to develop a
useful prototype suitable for large scale distribution.  Based on the
feedback and experience from using this prototype new features can be
quickly incorporated into the overall design.  Once DIBS matures, it can
be translated into another language for better performance.

If you feel that there is a compelling need for DIBS to be implemented
in another language, I encourage you to start such a project.  Two
advantages of porting the Python implementation are that you can port
Python to C/C++/Java piecemeal, and Python is fairly easy to read.


@node Installation
@chapter Installation

@menu
* Where do I get DIBS?::
* How do I install it?::
* Where is the documentation?::
* Do I need to do anything special to use it on Windows?::
@end menu

@node Where do I get DIBS?
@section Where do I get DIBS?

You can download source and binary distributions of DIBS from
@uref{dibs.sourceforge.net},
@uref{http://www.csua.berkeley.edu/~emin/source_code/dibs/index.html},
or search for the project @samp{DIBS} on @uref{sourceforge.net}.

@node How do I install it?
@section How do I install it?

For a binary distribution, install as usual.  If you have the source
distribution, you can install by entering the DIBS directory and
issuing the command @samp{python setup.py install}.  This will install
dibs.py either in a place like @samp{/usr/bin/dibs.py} on a UNIX
system or in the @samp{Scripts} directory of your Python installatin
on a Windows system.

@node Where is the documentation?
@section Where is the documentation?

Once you install DIBS, the documentation is put into a place like
@samp{/usr/doc/dibs} on a UNIX system or in the @samp{doc} directory
of your Python installation.


@node Do I need to do anything special to use it on Windows?
@section Do I need to do anything special to use it on Windows?

Yes and No.  DIBS should work fine on Windows, but the install might
be a bit more complicated since many of the programs DIBS uses are
installed by default on UNIX-like systems but not on windows systems.
The following is a step-by-step guide for installing DIBS on a windows
system.

@enumerate
@item  Install Python which you can get from www.python.org.  I put
Python in @samp{C:\Python23}.  

@item Install the Python windows extensions available from
@uref{http://www.python.org/windows/win32com}. 

@item Install GnuPG which you can download from
@uref{http://www.gnupg.org}.  I put GnuPG in @samp{C:\GnuPG}.  GnuPG may have
problems if you install it somewhere else.

@item To run GPG commands, start a command prompt via
@samp{Start->Accessories->Command Prompt} and type your GnuPG commands
into the command prompt using @samp{C:\GnuPG\bin\gpg.exe ...} or the
equivalent depending on where you put GnuPG. For example, you will
probably need to create a key via @samp{C:\GnuPG\bin\gpg.exe
--gen-key}.  Remember to use an empty passphrase for your dibs key.

@item Install DIBS by double clicking on the windows DIBS installer.

@item Find out where the dibs.py program was placed (e.g., click on
"My Computer" and select search).  On my system, dibs.py got put in
@samp{C:\Python23\Scripts\dibs.py}. 

@item Open a command prompt (e.g., click on
@samp{Start->Accessories->Command Prompt}) 

@item Run the dibs program in the command prompt with the argument
@samp{show_database}.  On my system, I would do 
@example   
   C:\Python23\Scripts\dibs.py show_database
@end example

@enumerate
@item If that works, follow the rest of the instructions in the
regular install section of the manual.   

@item If that does not work, it may be because you have an older
version of windows which does not associate @samp{.py} files with
Python.  Find where @samp{python.exe} is (on my system, it is at
@samp{C:\Python23\python.exe}).  Next, run DIBS commands by explicitly
calling Python, e.g., 
@example

 C:\Python23\python.exe C:\Python23\Scripts\dibs.py show_database
@end example

If this works, you can call future DIBS commands in this manner.
@end enumerate
@end enumerate

Beyond that, make sure to follow the instructions in the installation
section of the manual about configuring your @samp{dibsrc.py} file.
Specifically, you will probably need to put the location of your
Python executable in @samp{dibsrc.py} and specify your SMTP server.

@node Technical Questions
@chapter Technical Questions

@menu
* How do I use recover_file between a passive and active peer?::
* What if I delete files backed up via auto_check?::
* What happens if DIBS tries to store a file it can't read?::
* Are there any forbidden patterns for stored file names?::
* How do you calculate the robustness/redundancy trade-off for DIBS?::
@end menu

@node How do I use recover_file between a passive and active peer?
@section How do I use recover_file between a passive and active peer?

The recover_file command works the same regardless of how the peers
communicate.  However, if things don't seem to work or work REALLY
slowly, it could be because the messages aren't being delivered as 
fast as you would like.  

Consider the following scenario.  You control two DIBS peers.  Peer A
s behind a firewall and peer B is not but uses passive talk
mode since it can not contact peer A directly.  You issue a
recover_file command from peer A.  This causes peer A to send data to
peer B asking for the file to be recovered.  Peer B digs out the
necessary data and creates the outgoing DIBS messages, but since it
can't connect to peer A directly, it has to wait for peer A to contact
it again.  If peer A is running the DIBS daemon (which it should be),
then the daemon will eventually issue the poll_passives command to
contact peer B and get this data.

If you want to make things work faster.  Issue the command
poll_passives on peer A a little while after you issue the
recover_file command.  This will cause peer A to contact peer B to get
the messages that peer B has prepared.  Next issue the process_message
command on peer A (with no arguments) to make peer A process the
incoming messages.  This should make the recovered file appear in the
recovery directory on peer A.

If you don't have control over the other peer and you are
communicating with them in passive mode (i.e., waiting for them to
contact you since they are behind a firewall), all you can do is wait
for their daemon to contact you.  I don't see anyway to speed this up
besides increasing the poll interval (which you can do by setting
daemonTimeout option).  If you have other suggestions, please contact
the DIBS development team.


@node What if I delete files backed up via auto_check?
@section What if I delete files backed up via auto_check?

Basically nothing happens.  The files that were backed up stay backed
up and are not affected via further invocations of auto_check.  For
example, assume you have a directory foo containing the files bar and baz.
You put a link to foo in the autoBackup directory so it gets automatically
backed up via the auto_check command.  After a while you delete foo/baz.
Later invocations of auto_check DO NOT remove the backup of foo/baz.
If you want the backup of foo/baz removed, you must do it manually using
the unstore_file command.

This may disturb you if you often delete files in directories backed
up via auto_check since you may end up with lots of delete files which
are still backed up.  One thing you can do to prevent this is occasionally
issue the clear command which will cause all of your current backups to
be dropped (and hopefully re-backed up with auto_check).  The problem with 
using clear is that re-backing up all your data will take significantly
longer than doing incremental backups.

I'm open to suggestions on what should happen to backups of files made
via auto_check once the originals are deleted.  Contact me if you have 
strong feelings or a good argument for an alternative implementation.


@node What happens if DIBS tries to store a file it can't read?
@section What happens if DIBS tries to store a file it can't read?

If DIBS attempts to store a file it can't read either because the
``file'' is a dangling symbolic link or because the user doesn't 
have permission to read the file, then DIBS prints (and logs) a
warning and continues without storing the file.  This behavior is
important since when DIBS is automatically backing up data via
the auto_check command or from one of your own scripts, you don't
want it to die due to bad links or bad permissions.

@node Are there any forbidden patterns for stored file names?
@section Are there any forbidden patterns for stored file names?

Yes.  The pattern in the variable fileSeparator in the file
dibs_constants.py is not allowed to be in any file names you give to
DIBS.  (The value of the fileSeparator should be @samp{@@@@DIBS@@@@} unless
you have changed it).  If you try and store a file with this forbidden
pattern in the name, DIBS will print and log a warning and transform
the file name to something acceptable.

@node How do you calculate the robustness/redundancy trade-off for DIBS?
@section How do you calculate the robustness/redundancy trade-off for DIBS?

For example, imagine you have 10 participants all with about 10MB of
files they want to share.  They all want to have N/2 = 5-fold
redundancy. How much disk space does each one need to offer up to
their peers for storage?

Short Answer: To be able to recover the file if 5 out of 9 peers crash
(9 peers + you = 10 participants), each peer needs to provide a total
of 22.5 MB of storage.

Long Answer: Imagine that you have a 10 MB file that you want to
distribute among 9 peers (there are 10 participants total including
yourself).  The simplest thing is to cut the file into 10/9 MB chunks
and send each chunk to a different peer. There is no redundancy in
this method: if any peer loses a chunk you can't recover (unless you
kept a copy yourself, but in that case you wouldn't need to recover
from backup anyway). On the other hand, the total storage required is
only 10 MB (10/9 MB for each of the 9 peers). Each peer would have to
provide 10/9 MB to every other peer resulting in each peer providing a
total of 10 MB to others.

A simple way to get redundancy is to give each peer a copy of the
entire file. With this method, as long as at least one peer doesn't
lose his chunk, the file can be recovered. The problem is that the
total storage required is 90 MB (9 copies of the 10 MB file). Each
peer would have to provide 10 MB to every other peer resulting in each
peer providing a total of 90 MB to others.

With Reed-Solomon coding you can get trade-offs in between. For
example, you could chop the original file into 9 chunks of 10/4=2.5 MB
using a Reed-Solomon code and give each peer 1 chunk. Then as long as
10 MB worth of data (i.e., 4 2.5MB chunks) survive, you can recover
the file.  Thus there is no problem as long as half of the 10 people
(yourself and 9 peers) survive.

To get the general formula, imagine you have a file of size S bits to
distribute among N peers and you want to be able to recover the file
from the peers even if any P peers crash. You divide up the file into
N chunks of size S/(N-P) and give each peer one chunk. Provided that
at least N-P peers survive, you can combine those N-P chunks (which
comprise S/(N-P) bits per chunk * N-P chunks = S bits) to recover the
original file. Each of the N peers will have to store one chunk of
size S/(N-P) for every other peer which means each peer will provide
S/(N-P) * N bits of storage.

The best way to think about Reed-Solomon coding is imagine that a file
is like water. If you want to make sure you can get 1 liter of water
(i.e., a 1 MB file) even if P out of N canteens get lost (i.e., P out
of N peers crash), you need to put 1/(N-P) liters of water in each of
the N canteens. That way the 1/(N-P) liters in each canteen times the
N-P surviving canteens give you 1 liter of water total.

@c Related projects
@c faubackup
@c bacula
@c duplicity
@c intermemory

@bye


