
Since disk drives are cheap, backup should be cheap too.  Of course it
does not help to mirror your data by adding more disks to your own
computer because a virus, fire, flood, power surge, robbery,
etc. could still wipe out your local data center.  Instead, you should
give your files to peers (and in return store their files) so that if
a catastrophe strikes your area, you can recover data from surviving
peers.  The Distributed Internet Backup System (DIBS) is designed to
implement this vision.

Note that DIBS is a backup system not a file sharing system like
Napster, Gnutella, Kazaa, etc.  In fact, DIBS encrypts all data
transmissions so that the peers you exchange files with can not access
your data.

@section Features

@subsection Automated Backup

After initial configuration, DIBS is designed to run in the background
and automatically backup desired data.  Specifically, any files,
directories, or links placed in the DIBS auto backup directory (usually
~/.dibs/autoBackup) are periodically examined by DIBS and sent to peers
for backup.  If the data changes, DIBS automatically unstores old
versions and backs up changes.  

@subsection Incremental Backup

DIBS performs incremental backup.  Specifically, if DIBS is asked to
backup a file (either automatically or by the user), and DIBS
determines the file is already backed up and the file is unchanged,
DIBS does not re-backup the file.  This allows you to efficiently
backup large numbers of files without wasting bandwidth by repeatedly
backing up unchanged data.

@subsection Security

DIBS uses Gnu Privacy Guard (GPG) to encrypt and digitally sign all
transactions.  Thus you can be confident that even though you are
sending your files to others for backup, your data will remain private.
Furthermore, by using digital signatures, DIBS prevents others from
impersonating you to store files with your peers.

@subsection Robustness

DIBS uses Reed-Solomon codes (a type of erasure correcting code
similar to those used in RAID systems) to gain the maximum robustness
for a given amount of redundancy.  See the FAQ for a description of
the benefits of Reed-Solomon codes.

@subsection Peer Finder Service

DIBS includes a peer finder service to allow you to find peers to
exchange backup space with.

@subsection Flexible Communication Modes
@anchor{Flexible Communication Modes}
Since peers can have varying levels of connectivity to the network,
DIBS offers different communication methods to support a variety of users.

@itemize @bullet
@item active: 
In active mode, the sender directly connects to another peer over the
network to transfer files and messages.  This is the preferred mode
for peers who are almost always directly connected to the network.

@item passive:
In passive mode, the sender stores messages in a local queue and
delivers them to the receiver whenever the receiver initiates a
connection.  This mode is required when the receiver is behind a
firewall (and can not be contacted directly) or is not always
connected to the network.

@subsection GUI

DIBS now has a graphical user interface (GUI) to make it easier to
use.  The current GUI is experimental so comments, suggestions, and
code contributions are welcomed.

@end itemize
